# Smart Lotto - a program that draws numbers based on historical data and statistics

The program was created with my dad in mind. He believes that sometimes it's worth spending a small amount of money to
test his luck. To prevent him from playing completely randomly, I'm creating a program that, based on statistics, 
selects the numbers he can play with.

*Please note that the app is more of a programming skill development and a form of data manipulation. Lotto numbers 
are completely random, and the results of the drawings cannot be predicted.*

### :rocket: Completed parts
- the application communicates with the LOTTO API to download historical results 
(uses a key generated by Totalizator Sportowy's IT).
- statistics are counted: frequency of occurrence of numbers, last occurrence (date) and number of draws since
the last occurrence of the number.

### :bulb: Planned parts
- The most important step is to implement a data sampling module. Currently, I'm planning to draw with varying 
probabilities and based on various statistics—semi-annual, annual, multi-year, and overall. Additionally, I'd like to 
propose a sampling method that takes into account the number of recent draws in which a given number did not occur, as 
well as other methods (I'm currently developing various methods). This part will be implemented in Python. *Hope to be
implemented until the ed of August 2025)*
- Communication with the Python part of the application.
- Recording drawn results and checking them against actual draws to determine the accuracy of individual
drawing methods.
- Frontend preparation.
- Creating similar methods for other games (Mini Lotto, EuroJackpot etc.)
- In the final version, all historical results will be downloaded and new ones will be downloaded automatically on 
an ongoing basis.
- As applications grow, the project structure will likely change in the future

### :wrench: Technologies
- Java 17
- Spring Boot
- PostgreSQL (database stored in a Docker container)
- REST API

##### To run application first start the Docker container with PostgreSQL:
```
docker compose up -d
```
